---
layout: post
title: Week 7, July 26
---

Last week of Generic Programming! Man what a ride it has been! I hope you all enjoyed reading these posts as much as I have had documenting my time in the class. This last week was a mix of different classes. On Monday we had a normal lecture where we finished discussing iterator adaptors. Specifically we went over OStreamIterator, IStreamIterator, and ReverseIterator. On Wednesday we had a guest lecturer from Mutual Mobile from right here in Austin. He presented a good overview of what they do at Mutual Mobile and how they use and create open source software. On Friday we had a quick review before the last exam, which is tomorrow! Yikes!

As for the class and entire semester, I have to tell you how much I've learned and enjoyed this class. I feel like I have a much better understanding and command of C++, and all the topics we've gone over have given me a good insight into generic programming. The more time I spend studying the language, the more I begin to truly appreciate the power and flexibility of C++ and generic progamming in particular. C++ is much more powerful when compared to Java. You have much more control in C++ than you do in Java. Now that comes with a price. Some topics are more complex and it's easy to get yourself in a knot when dealing with pointers and references. But it's as if you are driving a formula one car with C++ while Java is a safe sedan. I can see how the power to create your own iterators and overload operators would be useful in so many applications. I think maybe UT should consider using C++ as their intoductory lingua franca for the CS department. It would also definitely help students when they take C based classes such as the computer architecture and operating systems.

I also really liked the project specifications Professor Downing used. In other classes, the program specifications were vague and left too many open ended questions. Not so in Generic Programming. For the most part, you know what you need to do and you know what is expected of you. In addition to writing a program, each project requires several different non-programming components such as documentation, uploading unit tests, correct filenaming, and somtimes a successful run on 3rd party sites such as Sphere. All these logistical items must be met for you to even receive a GRADE for the assignment. Miss one the items and you get a one day penalty to correct and resubmit. As draconian as this sounds, it puts the student in a real life position where you have other responsiblities besides just creating a solution. So be aware off all the requirements required by the programming assignments.

Lastly, it was nice to use Github, TravisCI, and Gtest. They each provided a nice dimension to the assignments. This is the first time I've used TravisCI, and it was nice knowing each change you made could properly integrate in the environment you used.

Tip of the Week: This week is a two for one special. Keep up the pace and pair up! Summer sessions are shorter and more condensed. I cannot stress enough how important it is to get started early on assignments (which I unfortunately did not always follow) and stay on pace with the topics discussed in class. About 20% of your overall grade is from class quizzes! If you just review the material before the next lecture you'll do well on the quizzes and that will get you an easy 20% right there. And if you get started early on assignments, it'll leave you plenty of time to get the solution and make sure all your requirements have been met. Also, pair up with a person. It is pretty neat to see how other people code solutions, you will learn a lot and you will also have the opporunity to teach someone else something he or she did not know. So if you pair up and keep up the pace, you'll do just fine in the class!
