---
layout: post
title: Week 4, July 5
---

It's the fourth of July weekend, and I guess we're about a little more than halfway thru the summer session. This week we had our first midterm exam. After getting our "help sheet" verified by the TA and given the go ahead to start, I quickly looked over the exam to see what was ahead of me in order to strategically decide which questions I should tackle first. That initial look over left me with the feeling that the exam would be a little daunting. I believe there were 7 questions but they were all code writing questions. Future Downing students, go ahead and bank on the fact that all exams will be code writing questions. None of this multiple choice, fill in the blank business you may expect from other classes. Anyhoo, after working through the questions, that daunting feeling subsided, and I felt more and more confident with my answers. Honestly, if you review the code that is covered in class and are comfortable with the quiz content and can write your own code for new problems, you will do just fine on the exam. I'm also glad I also reviewed my exam at the end before turning it in. I realized that I didn't properly code the first question and had written an answer to a completely different question! So save some time and review your exam answers!

As for this week, we also started looking at the next project, an Integer class similar to Java's Big Integer class. It's basically a class that allows you to instantiate and operate on very large integers. Integers that are much larger than what is permissble by the primivite integer type.


Tip of the Week: Try and attend every class you can. Now things come up and sometimes that's not possible, but if there is one class you shouldn't skip, it's definitely the class before a midterm. Why? Well, that day we went over a whole page of code on a pseudo iterator class and that same type of question was on the exam. Not only that, professor Downing said as much. He basically warned us that we'd have to write someting similar on the exam and that we should understand it backwards and forwards. So do yourself a favor and go to the class before an exam, you'll get a good idea of what to expect on the exam!
