---
layout: post
title: Week 5, July 12
---

Another week down in Generic Programming and what a week it was. The programming project this past week was writing a BigInteger class that emulated Java's BigInteger class. Though from the looks of it, this assignment tested the class as a whole since the test repo holding everyone's test cases was mostly empty by the night it was due. So maybe BigInteger might have a been a misnomer. Maybe better to call it big headache! Luckily, we got a stay of execution from Professor Downing since he gave us an extra day to finish the project. Definitely needed that extra day to finish up the assignment. As for the project itself, BigInteger accommodates a large decimal number and operations on large decimal numbers that would be beyond the capacity of any primitive type. The difficult portion of the assignment was computing Mersenne primes within 500 msec. Our initial implementation was a feeble 20 seconds. Our main problem was with the method multiplies_digits. We initially created and copied one too many local vectors to perform the multiplication, which is fine with small numbers. But when multiplying very large numbers, moving and copying large vectors really slows down the process. So we had to multiply and add all at the same time sans any local copying and that did the trick. We even were able to meet the time constraint of the bonus points, computing the 30th Mersenne prime!!! It felt so good to get the project working. So Big Headache turned into Big Joy but just when I got a chance to breathe and relish finishing the assignment, I turn to see the next one, project Deque. Here's to hoping for a easier time with project Deque.


Tip of the Week: Make sure you really understand iterators and using them. Iterators in and of themself aren't difficult to understand but when they are deeply integrated with more complex components as was the case with BigInteger, it can add a dimension of complexity that makes the whole project more difficult to debug.
