---
layout: post
title: Week 2, June 21
---

Week 2 of Generic Programming and the STL is in the books! This week was stressful. We had our first programming assignment due plus I had several other assignments due in my other class not to mention putting in time at work. Buyer be aware, this class covers a lot of ground in the little  time there is in one half of a summer session, so make sure you allot your time carefully for the assignments and reviewing the concepts covered in class. The first assignment in generics involved the collatz math problem. Specificially, we had to compute the maximum cycle length for all numbers in the range of two given integers. Luckily, we were given most the of the code skeleton and just had to add our implementation. The solution required a cache implementation for a speedier computation so that the solution would pass on Sphere. Fortunately for me, luck struck again when mother nature closed campus (thanks Bill!), and the assignment due date was pushed back a day. That allowed me to make sure I had my solution correct and all the required files in working order. But I couldn't relax too long, because another assignment is due around the corner. This wave I'm riding that is Generic Programming just keeps getting bigger and bigger, but that's ok, because the bigger the wave the funner the ride! See ya next week!

Tip of the Week: Start early and start often. One thing you cannot afford in this class is getting a late start on assignments. I know, you've told yourself this before but hou still do it and it usually works out in the end. Not in this class. Not only will the solution take some time to figure out, but the assignment specifications themselves are fastidious. I'm already getting burned by my own tip as the second assignment is due in two days and I feel I still have a lot to do!
