---
layout: post
title: Week 1, June 14
---

Well here we go. Week 1 of generic programming and the STL is down and I find myself fevershily trying to finish up this blog post, the first of the summer session. This blog will house my experiences in taking UT's computer science class CS378, "Generic Programming and the STL". It seems like this class is only offered during the summer session, so anyone looking to take this class will have to wait for the summer to do so. This is actually my second go around in this class. I had to drop this class last year for non-academic reasons. So this feels pretty weird, almost deja-vu like. I know from previous experience that the pace of this class is quick and can easily sneak up on you if you are not careful. Another assest to this class are the project specifications, which are very involved and must be followed to the last detail. Although it may seem like a challenge, it's good practice as it emulates what one would find in a work environment. One thing that I remember that's different from last year is the use of Travis CI, a continuous integration tool that I'm in the middle of tyring to figure out. So it looks like the specifications are little more this time around. I won't lie, I remember this class being pretty tough but Downing's lecture style is creative and very interactive.

Tip of the Week: Make sure you are well versed in git. It's essentially the backbone of the projects and will be a real help to know it for all the projects.
