---
layout: post
title: Week 3, June 28
---

Check off another week in the calendar, week 3 of Generic Programming has come and gone! This week was a little different than the past two weeks. A highlight was a presentation by a professional software developer, Everett Toews of Rackspace here in Austin. His presentation was excellent, and I was really impressed with his public speaking skill; he destroyed the notion that computer engineers do not possess verbal finesse! As for the content, he provided an excellent overview of openstack and cloud development but of more interest to me was his personal career journey in the software industry, and the advice he imparted to us was great. I really appreciated the importance he placed on interpersonal skills and attitude as foundational qualities in a software developer. Forget specific technologies, they can come and go, but how you treat other people and how you engage an issue is really what makes certain people stick out. And if you think about it, the same goes for any industry or career path you take. In my work experience, you remember the people who treated you respectfully and weren't jerks much more so than the ones who were experts in some aspect but had a horrible attitude. He also mentioned that volunteering on open source projects is a real good way to get your foot in the open source door, if that interests you. However, he recommends volunteering with a purpose or with some aspect of the project in mind instead of offering unfocused help that has no direction. Anyhoo, time to get back to studying for tomorrow's midterm... See you next week!

Tip of the Week: For programming projects make sure you read all the links under the analysis section of the project page! I did that on the last project, pfd (project file dependencies). One of the links was a wikipedia entry for topological sort which had a very nice description of the problem and really helped me to tackle the project quickly. So don't underestimate those links the professor provides!
